federalist 24 the powers necessary to
the common defense
further considered for the independent
journal
hamilton to the people of the state of
new york
to the powers proposed to be conferred
upon the federal government
in respect to the creation and direction
of the national forces
i have met with but one specific
objection which if i understand it right
is this the proper provision has not
been made against the existence of
standing armies in time of peace an
objection which i shall now endeavor to
show rests on weak and unsubstantial
foundations
it has indeed been brought forward in
the most vague and general form
supported only by bold assertions
without the appearance of argument
without even the sanction of theoretical
opinions
in contradiction to the practice of
other free nations and to the general
sense of america
as expressed in most of the existing
constitutions
the propriety of this remark will appear
the moment it is recollected that the
objection under consideration
turns upon a supposed necessity of
restraining the legislative authority of
the nation
in the article of military
establishments a principle unheard of
except in one or two of our state
constitutions
and rejected in all the rest a stranger
to our politics who has read our
newspapers at the present juncture
without having previously inspected the
plan reported by the convention
would be naturally led to one of two
conclusions either that it contained a
positive injunction that standing army
should be kept up in time of peace
or that invested in the executive the
whole power of levying troops
without subjecting his discretion in any
shape to the control of the legislature
if he came afterwards to peruse the plan
itself he would be surprised to discover
that neither the one nor the
other was the case that the whole power
of raising armies was lodged in the
legislature
not in the executive that this
legislature was to be a popular body
consisting of the representatives of the
people periodically elected
and that instead of the provision he had
supposed in favor of standing armies
there was to be found in respect to this
object an important qualification even
of the legislative discretion
in that clause which forbids the
approbation of money for the support of
an
army for any longer period than two
years of precaution which upon a newer
view of it will appear to be a great and
real security against the keeping up of
troops without evident necessity
disappointed in his first surmise the
person i suppose would be apt to pursue
his conjectures a little further
he would naturally say to himself it is
impossible that all this vehement and
pathetic declaration can be without some
colorable pretext
it must needs be that these people so
jealous of their liberties have
in all the preceding models of the
constitutions which they have
established
inserted the most precise and rigid
precautions on this point
the omission of which in the new plan
has given birth to all this apprehension
and clamor if under this impression he
proceeded to pass and review the several
state constitutions
how great would be his disappointment to
find that two only of them
this statement of the matter is taken
from the printed collection of state
constitutions pennsylvania and north
carolina are the two which contain the
interdiction in these words
as standing armies in time of peace are
dangerous to liberty they ought not to
be kept up
this is in truth rather a caution than a
prohibition new hampshire massachusetts
delaware and maryland have
in each of their bills of rights a
clause to this effect
standing armies are dangerous to liberty
and ought not to be raised or kept up
without the consent of the legislature
which
is a formal admission of the authority
of the legislature
new york has no bill of rights and her
constitution says not a word about the
matter
no bills of rights appear annexed to the
constitutions of the other states
except the foregoing and their
constitutions are equally silent
i am told however that one or two states
have bills of rights which do not appear
in this collection but that those also
recognize the right of the legislative
authority in this respect
contained an interdiction of standing
armies in time of peace
that the other 11 had either observed
profound silence on the subject
or had in express terms admitted the
right of the legislature to authorize
their existence
still however he would be persuaded that
there must be some plausible foundation
for the cry raised on this head
he would never be able to imagine while
any source of information remained
unexplored that it was nothing more than
an experiment upon the public credulity
dictated either by a deliberate
intention to deceive
or by the overflowing of a zeal too
intemperate to be ingenious
it would probably occur to him that he
would be likely to find the precautions
he was in search of in the primitive
compact between the states
here at length he would expect to meet
with the solution of the enigma
no doubt he would observe to himself the
existing confederation must contain the
most explicit provisions against
military establishments in time of peace
and a departure from this model in a
favorite point has occasion the
discontent which appears to influence
these political champions
if he should now apply himself to a
careful and critical survey of the
articles of confederation his
astonishment would not only be increased
he would acquire a mixture of
indignation at the unexpected discovery
that these articles instead of
containing the prohibition he looked for
and though they had with jealous
circumspection restricted the authority
of the state legislatures in this
particular
had not imposed a single restraint on
that of the united states
if he happened to be a man of quick
sensibility or ardent temper he could
now no longer refrain from regarding
these clamors as the dishonest artifices
of a sinister and unprincipled
opposition to a plan which ought at
least to receive a fair and candid
examination from all sincere lovers of
their country
how else he would say could the authors
of them have been tempted to vince such
loud centers upon that plan about a
point in which it seems to have
conformed itself to the general sense of
america as declared in its different
forms of government
and in which it has even super added a
new and powerful guard unknown to any of
them
if on the contrary he happened to be a
man of calm and dispassionate feelings
he would indulge a sigh for the frailty
of human nature and would lament that in
a matter so interesting to the happiness
of millions
the true merits of the question should
be perplexed and entangled by expedience
so unfriendly to an impartial and right
determination
even such a man could hardly forebear
remarking that a conduct of this kind
has too much the appearance of an
intention to mislead the people by
alarming their passions
rather than to convince them by
arguments addressed to their
understandings but however little this
objection may be countenanced
even by precedence among ourselves it
may be satisfactory to take a nearer
view of its intrinsic merits
from a close examination it will appear
that restraints upon the discretion of
the legislature
in respect to military establishments in
time of peace
would be improper to be imposed and if
imposed from the necessities of society
would be unlikely to be observed
though a wide ocean separates the united
states from europe
yet there are various considerations
that warn us against an excess of
confidence or security
on one side of us and stretching far
into our rear are growing settlements
subject to the dominion of britain
on the other side and extending to meet
the british settlements are colonies and
establishments subject to the dominion
of spain
this situation in the vicinity of the
west india islands belonging to these
two powers create between them in
respect to their american possessions
and in relation to us
a common interest the savage tribes on
our western frontier ought to be
regarded as our natural enemies
their natural allies because they have
most to fear from us and most to hope
from them
the improvements in the art of
navigation have as to the facility of
communication
render distant nations in a great
measure neighbors
britain and spain are among the
principal maritime powers of europe
a future concert of views between these
nations ought not to be regarded as
improbable
the increasing remoteness of
consanguinity is every day diminishing
the force of the family compact between
france and spain and politicians have
ever with great reason consider the ties
of blood as feeble and precarious links
of political connection
these circumstances combined admonish us
not to be too sanguine in considering
ourselves as entirely out of the reach
of danger
previous to the revolution and ever
since the peace there has been a
constant necessity for keeping small
garrisons on our western frontier
no person can doubt that these will
continue to be indispensable if it
should only be against the ravages and
depredations of the indians
these garrisons must either be furnished
by occasional detachments from the
militia or by permanent corps in the pay
of the government
the first is impracticable and if
practicable would be pernicious
the militia would not long if at all
submit to be dragged from their
occupations and families to perform that
most disagreeable duty in times of
profound peace
and if they could be prevailed upon or
compelled to do it the increased expense
of a frequent rotation of service and
the loss of labor and disconcertion of
the industrious pursuits of individuals
would form conclusive objections to the
scheme
it would be as burdensome and injurious
to the public as ruinous to private
citizens
the latter resource of permanent corps
on the pay of the government amounts to
a standing army in time of peace
a small one indeed but not less real for
being small
here is a simple view of the subject
that shows us at once the impropriety of
a constitutional interdiction of such
establishments
and the necessity of leaving the matter
to the discretion and prudence of the
legislature
in proportion to our increase in
strength it is probable
nay it may be said certain that britain
and spain would augment their military
establishments in our neighborhood
if we should not be willing to be
exposed in a naked and defenseless
condition to their insults and
encroachments we should find it
expedient to increase our frontier
garrisons in some ratio to the force by
which our western settlements might be
annoyed
there are and will be particular posts
the possession of which will include the
command of large districts of territory
and facilitate future invasions of the
remainder
it may be added that some of those posts
will be keys to the trade with the
indian nations
can any men think it would be wise to
leave such posts in a situation to be at
any instant seized by one or the other
of two neighboring and formidable powers
to act this part would be to desert all
the usual maxims of prudence and policy
if we mean to be a commercial people or
even to be secure on our atlantic side
we must endeavor as soon as possible to
have a navy
to this purpose there must be dockyards
and arsenals and for the defense of
these fortifications
and probably garrisons when a nation has
become so powerful by sea that it can
protect its dockyards by its fleets
this supersedes the necessity of
garrisons for that purpose
but where naval establishments are in
their infancy moderate garrisons will in
all likelihood be found in indispensable
security against descents for the
destruction of the arsenals and
dockyards
and sometimes of the fleet itself